Nearly three decades ago a Houston franchise, after decades of futility among the major sports in town, had finally reached the summit. In The Summit.

“Houston, you’ve waited for this for so long,” then-Rockets coach Rudy Tomjanovich told an adoring crowd the night of June 22, 1994, after the city’s basketball squad won Houston’s first championship among the NFL, MLB and NBA offerings.

That first title also was the first time Houston fans were able to enjoy the festivities up close and personal en masse, as they did a year later in The Summit, as well, when the Rockets won consecutive titles.

“I have one thing to say to those non-believers,” Tomjanovich famously said as confetti spun down from the rafters in The Summit on June 14, 1995. “Don’t ever underestimate the heart of a champion.”

The Astros entered Saturday night’s contest at Minute Maid Park with a chance to win a title on their home field for the first time when they hosted the Philadelphia Phillies in Game 6 of the World Series.

The Astros are playing in the World Series for a fifth time, and their lone title prior to the 2022 season was won on Nov. 1, 2017, in Los Angeles against the Dodgers.

“We’re coming home champions,” then-Astros star George Springer said at the time.

A year ago the Astros had a chance to win a World Series title at home, but lost Game 6 at Minute Maid Park 7-0 against the Atlanta Braves, who won the Series 4-2. Two years prior in 2019, the Washington Nationals won Game 7 of the World Series in Houston.

The Astros never had a chance to win a title at home in their first World Series in 2005 — or in either of the two cities. The Chicago White Sox made sure of as much with a sweep, including winning the last two games in Minute Maid, which was only five years old at the time.

“Once you’re here,” Astros then-second baseman Craig Biggio said following the sweep of Houston’s multiple missed opportunities, “you might as well win it.”

The Astros would finally win their first World Series game a dozen years later, in Game 2 of 2017 in Dodger Stadium (also where they’d win the title five games later). Minute Maid had replaced the Astrodome, which never came close to celebrating a championship under its expansive roof between the Astros and the Oilers of the NFL, the latter which bolted Houston for Nashville, Tenn., following the 1996 season.

The NFL’s Super Bowl is held at a neutral site each year, of course, and the Astrodome never hosted the league’s most glamourous event. Rice Stadium hosted Super Bowl VIII in January 1974, a Miami Dolphins victory over the Minnesota Vikings. The hapless Oilers finished 1-13 that season, so they needed tickets to attend a Super Bowl in their home city.

NRG Stadium opened in 2002 and is home of the NFL’s Texans. NRG hosted Super Bowls following the 2003 and 2016 regular seasons, both won by Tom Brady and the New England Patriots, and the Texans finished 5-11 and 9-7, respectively, in those home Super Bowl seasons.

The Texans lost at New England in the divisional round of the 2016 playoffs, and would have needed two more victories to play for a Super Bowl title under their own roof.

Prior to 1994 and 1995, the Rockets made the NBA Finals in 1981 and 1986, both against the Boston Celtics, but the Rockets never came close to winning a title in either series on their home floor of The Summit, now Joel Osteen’s Lakewood Church.

The Celtics won the NBA Finals in six games in 1981, with the Game 6 victory coming on Houston’s home floor, while the Celtics also won the 1986 Finals in six games, with the last victory this time around occurring in the Boston Garden. The Rockets have played in Toyota Center since 2003, and have not made an NBA Finals since 1995.

Now entering Saturday night’s Game 6, the Phillies will have to win two consecutive games away from their home to win their first World Series title since 2008.

“They’re going to fight to the end, for sure,” Phillies manager Rob Thomson said of his players.

Astros shortstop Jeremy Peña was two years from birth when the city of Houston last celebrated a title under its own roof – a roof now on top of a megachurch. As a rookie, however, Peña is simply appreciative of the chance to win a title — no matter the venue.

“You’ve got to be grateful to be in the position that we’re in — we’re in the World Series,” Peña said. “That in itself is something special.”