Advertisement

Scrappy goal, scrappy game, scrappy three points. From an Arsenal perspective, though, who cares?

The team everyone presumes will next year claim the Premier League title needed a 95th minute penalty to beat Fulham at home on Saturday so, in the circumstances, this was more than impressive. Chelsea haven’t lost a league game at Stamford Bridge since April 20 – Arsenal again – but they were significantly second best here.

It is hard to recall a save Arsenal goalkeeper Aaron Ramsdale made and while Edouard Mendy was hardly a busy boy at the other end, that was more due to a lack of accuracy on Arsenal’s part than a lack of dominance.

Arsenal emerged victorious from the London derby on Sunday afternoon, beating Chelsea 1-0 at Stamford Bridge

It was Gabriel who scored the only goal of the game in the 63rd minute - having capitalised on Chelsea's poor defending

Bukayo Saka's cross for the goal was so good that it would have ended up in the back of the net even if Gabriel didn't touch it

Gabriel Jesus should have scored with a header in the first-half, Thomas Partey with a header in the second and Bukayo Saka and Martin Odegaard both had chances to increase the lead after Arsenal had gone ahead, but shot over.

So this was a solid Arsenal performance if not a spectacular one, against rivals with ambitions to be where Arteta’s side are now. There has certainly been a shift in the capital’s power structure in the first phase of this season, too.

This is the third consecutive time Arsenal and Arteta have won at Stamford Bridge, and the last run like that was enjoyed between October 1971 and April 1974 in the days of Bertie Mee. Not even in George Graham or Arsene Wenger’s prime did they ever enjoy such superiority in west London.

Gabriel Jesus (above) should have been the one to opening the scoring for Arsenal with a header in the first-half

Saka and Martin Odegaard both had chances to increase their lead after Arsenal had gone ahead, but shot over the bar

As for Chelsea, it’s just a blip for now, but it’s still worrying. Graham Potter has now achieved something that Thomas Tuchel never could at Chelsea by losing two league games in succession. Worse, his Chelsea have been overhauled by his former club Brighton, dropping down to seventh as Brighton go sixth.

Todd Boehly’s decision to dispense with the German looks increasingly rash. It wasn’t so broke that it required such radical fixing. At first, the home and away triumphs over AC Milan seemed to have won Potter time but the rise of Newcastle makes this league ever more competitive, a big six becoming a big seven.

MATCH FACTS Chelsea (4-2-3-1:) Mendy 7; Azpilicueta 6, Chalobah 7, Silva 7, Cucurella 7; Loftus-Cheek 6.5 (Kovacic , Jorginho 6, Sterling 7, Havertz 6.5 (Gallagher 64, 6), Mount 6.5 (Pulisic ; Aubameyang 5.5 (Broja 64, 6). Subs not used: Bettinelli, Hall, Koulibaly, Ziyech, Zakaria, Pulisic. Booked: Aubameyang, Azpilicueta, Chalobah, Gallagher, Sterling Manager: Graham Potter 6 Arsenal (4-2-3-1): Ramsdale 6.5; White 8, Saliba 8, Gabriel 8, Zinchenko 6.5 (Tierney 77, 6); Partey 8, Xhaka 8; Saka 8, Odegaard 7.5 (Elneny 87), Martinelli 7.5 (Holding 90); Jesus 7.5. Subs not used: Turner, Soares, Vieira, Lokonga, Nelson, Nketiah. Scorer: Gabriel 63 Booked: Saka, White Manager: Mikel Arteta 8 Referee: Michael Oliver 8. Attendance: 40, 142 Advertisement

Chelsea haven’t been playing that badly but suddenly find themselves in the UEFA Conference League slot. Potter needs to turn this around, and swiftly, and has only a visit to Newcastle to come before the season enters hiatus. Chelsea look tame in front of goal and one of his key players, Raheem Sterling, has lost his way having been swapped between wide and wing-back roles.

Chelsea never threatened here aside from one lacklustre set piece – Mason Mount finding Thiago Silva from a corner –which came to nothing. Even when chasing the game they never looked like scoring. There were 27 minutes plus five of injury time remaining when Arsenal got ahead, yet they always looked safe.

So the visitors got what they deserved. Their goal came from a corner created by a rare, genuine chance, when Saka played Jesus in and Mendy made a fine save at his near post. From the resulting kick, Saka whipped the ball in and it landed and beat several Chelsea defenders before Gabriel forced it over the line. It was probably going in anyway, but no harm in making sure.

And there was more to come. Just when Arsenal fans thought it couldn’t get any better, Potter chose that moment to withdraw Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, at daggers drawn with Arteta by the end of his Arsenal career.

Aubameyang has been sniping at his former boss of late, saying he cannot handle big players. Maybe he doesn’t need to handle big players if big means ego driven. Arsenal have plenty of big players in terms of talent and Sunday demonstrated that.

Yet there does not appear to be the selfish interests that were once in play during Aubameyang and Mesut Ozil’s time. At the end, and when they scored, Arsenal celebrated in front of their fans as a team, there was a unity in the way they worked for each other, supported each other and fought for one another. The best that can be said of Aubameyang is that he offered about as much as Armando Broja, who replaced him, or any of his team-mates, which is very little. To be fair, the service was woeful.

It was a hot-headed game, tempers bubbling under and Arteta was often furious at the physicality that confronted his players. He had a point. When we next consider why World Cup players are dropping like flies, we might address the protection Premier League referees afford the most creative ones.

Having been kicked out of Arsenal’s match with Nottingham Forest last week, Saka was lucky not to suffer the same fate here, mainly at the hands of Marc Cucurella. He left one on him from pretty much the first attack of the game and repeated the process several times after, to Arteta’s increasing fury. Of course, when Saka tired of his treatment and did the same to Cucurella, it was his name that went into Michael Oliver’s book.

Meaning the only two players booked before half-time were forwards, Aubameyang also earning a – justified – caution for a late challenge on Ben White. Defenders, midfielders, they mostly got away with it. Maybe the attacking players simply lack their accomplishment in the dark arts. They haven’t the subtlety, so are easily penalised.

Chelsea manager Graham Potter will be feeling the pressure as the Blues have now lost back-to-back games in the league

It was a disappointing performance from Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang - who was booed by the Arsenal fans on arrival

The former Arsenal captain was looking to prove a point but instead he was substituted by Potter early in the second half

By the end, though, Oliver at least appeared to have cottoned on to the worst offenders with five Chelsea bookings to Arsenal’s two, although Trevor Chalobah, Cesar Azpilicueta and White were the only defenders. He later seemed to spare Chalobah who was involved in an altercation with Granit Xhaka. Giving both men bookings would have led to the dismissal of Chelsea’s defender and the incident did not merit that.

Yet the needle made for a fractured game, neither side truly able to get into their rhythm and Arsenal better without greatly troubling Mendy, restored as Chelsea’s goalkeeper with Kepa Arrizabalaga injured.

Arsenal threatened without looking likely to break the deadlock across the first hour but defence is their strength and greatly underrated. They are the only Premier League team not to concede a goal in the first 30 minutes of play and only Newcastle have got to half-time with more clean sheets.

In many ways, the World Cup break is coming at just the wrong time given their form – and the opportunity it affords Erling Haaland to recover – yet everyone at the club would have settled for holding first place in November. Win at Wolves next week and Arsenal will be top at Christmas for the first time since 2015. Chelsea would certainly swap; as would 18 others.

Chelsea offered little beyond a Mason Mount corner that found Silva but was easily repelled by the Arsenal defence

Relive the action with Sportsmail's live blog for the Premier League clash between Chelsea and Arsenal at Stamford Bridge.