Matthew Stafford and the LA Rams will visit Tom Brady and the Buccaneers.

Matthew Stafford and the LA Rams will visit Tom Brady and the Buccaneers. therams.com | buccaneers.com

The last two Super Bowl champions will meet this Sunday at Raymond James Stadium when the Los Angeles Rams take on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in NFL's Week 9 matchup.

Tom Brady, on the slumping Bucs: "No one feels sorry for us, nor should they" AP

The Buccaneers will try to end their three game losing streak and hope that a win against a start of the season NFC contending team can spark their season turn around.

Sink their ship. pic.twitter.com/RAERylNZfA ? Los Angeles Rams (@RamsNFL) November 4, 2022

While the Los Angeles Rams haven't had the start of the season they hoped about when they brought back almost all of their key players after winning the Vince Lombardi Trophy and are currently staring at a 3-4 record.

How to listen, watch or live stream Rams - Buccaneers

This game where the Los Angeles Rams will take on the Tampa Bay Buccaneers will start this Sunday November 6 at Raymond James Stadium at 4:25 pm ET in Tampa Bay, Florida and it will be available to watch and listen in a wide range of options.

Fans who want to watch this game on TV will be able to do it on CBS, with the network sending its stellar broadcasting booth consistent of Jim Nantz and Tony Romo alongside Tracy Wolfson reporting from the sidelines.

Brady's Broken Bucs - Tampa can't stop losing

How to stream #LARvsTB ? Tampa Bay Buccaneers (@Buccaneers) November 3, 2022

Radio broadast for the game will also be available for fans in the Tampa Bay/Saratosa area, as they can tune in to WXTB 97.9 FM - Bucs Flagship Station.

Tom Brady will reach 100,000 career passing yards this game

Tom Brady and Gisele Bündchen confirm their divorce MC

Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback, Tom Brady is just 164 passing yards away from reaching the 100,000 threshold for his career including regular season and playoffs.

When Tom Brady reaches this mark he'll become the first to ever do it in NFL's history.

Brady will play his first NFL game since announcing his divorce from supermodel Gisele Bündchen.