ATHENS, Georgia — A pair of thoughts rattled around this brain throughout the second half of top-ranked Tennessee’s 27-13 loss at third-ranked Georgia on Saturday afternoon here at Sanford Stadium. Both are important, but the perspective of time puts them into two drastically different piles.

In the long term, Tennessee needs more dudes. These Vols have a lot of guys, but not enough dudes. They have some dudes. Georgia has wave after wave of dudes. A tsunami of dudes. Dudes up front, dudes at linebacker and dudes on the back end. Several of those dudes were injured and couldn’t play Saturday. It mattered not, because Kirby Smart has built Dude Mountain during his time with the Dawgs. There’s no limit on his credit card of dudes. It’s some fancy color of plastic that’s reserved only for those with yachts the size of a city block.

That’s the long term challenge facing Tennessee against Georgia and Alabama.

“But Wes, you moron, Tennessee just beat Alabama,” you might be thinking. And you’re right. The Vols did indeed end their miserable losing streak to the Crimson Tide just a few weeks ago at Neyland Stadium.

Tennessee junior receiver Jalin Hyatt

That brings things back to Thought No. 2 from Saturday.

In the short term, Tennessee absolutely can beat any team in the country in any venue in the country, but it has to execute exponentially better than it did Saturday in Athens.

Every team has a checklist of things it needs to do in order to win any game it plays. When you’re the more talented team, your list is shorter than your opponents’ list. When you’re the less talented team, your list in longer than your opponents’ list.

Tennessee’s list was longer than Alabama’s a few weeks ago, but the Vols ticked the boxes and won the game. Tennessee’s list was even longer at Georgia, owing to the Bulldogs being a better team and the location of the game, and the Vols hardly checked anything on the list.

Fast start? Nope. A 3-0 Tennessee lead after a couple of minutes was a 21-3 Tennessee deficit two snaps into the second quarter.

Run-game production? Nope. The Vols finished with just 94 yards on 42 carries.

Get off the field on third down? Nope. Georgia was 7-of-12 on third down, and that includes a couple of stops in the fourth quarter when the Dawgs were focused on milking the clock.

Limit penalties? Nope. Tennessee was flagged nine times — including a staggering seven false starts, a preposterous number even in an environment as raucous as Saturday’s. A trusted peer who has covered more games in Athens than just about any living soul insisted it was the loudest he’d ever heard Georgia’s longtime home field, but that’s no excuse for a veteran-laden offensive line to commit seven false starts in a single game.

Get some breaks? Nope. The game turned on perhaps the most incredible punt these eyes have ever seen — a 75-yard ballistic missile off the boot of Aussie Brett Thorson that sailed over the head of Dee Williams and rolled out of bounds inside the 1-yard line.

Avoid turnovers? Nope. Tennessee and Georgia both turned it over twice, but the Vols also turned it over twice on downs, leaving points on the field.

It was not Tennessee’s day. It’s tough to see any team in college football beating Georgia in that game on that field in that environment, but the Vols certainly didn’t.

What the Vols did, though, was avoid total collapse. That’s something this program hasn’t always done in recent years, and it’s the latest proof that this team is different. Tennessee continued to fight. It held Georgia to just six points in the game’s final 44-plus minutes, and it kept things close enough to avoid a route.

That mattered. It absolutely mattered.

Vols sophomore offensive lineman Gerald Mincey

Make no mistake, Saturday’s result took Tennessee’s fate out of its own hands. An undefeated season is the only uncomplicated route to the College Football Playoff. Plenty of one-loss teams have made the CFP, but one-loss teams almost always have to sweat at least a bit on decision day. And the larger-than-usual number of undefeated teams entering this weekend made things even more interesting.

Fortunately for the Vols, though, their day started improving after their own game ended.

Clemson got boat-raced at Notre Dame — (Touchdown) Jesus Saves — and got tagged with its first loss of the season. Ohio State didn’t have a great day, either, but the unbeaten Buckeyes did just enough to overcome a one-win Northwestern team in the knee-high grass in Evanston.

Two-loss LSU then gave Alabama its second loss of the season, eliminating even the tiniest shred of doubt that the Tide could jump ahead of a Tennessee team that fairly and squarely defeated it last month. Now the Tide and Tigers have two losses, which historically eliminates you from CFP contention.

A perfect Saturday for Tennessee obviously would have included a Tennessee win, but the Vols’ not-terrible loss in Athens will keep them in the top five of the newest CFP rankings Tuesday night. The Vols might even remain in the top four unless unbeaten TCU leap-Horned-Frogs them in the standings. You could make a solid argument that Tennessee still has a better resume than Michigan and TCU, but you couldn’t really complain if both of them jumped the Vols in the new rankings.

TCU might not be undefeated the rest of the season — it plays at Texas and at Baylor the next two weeks, and then it hosts Iowa State before playing at least a decent opponent in the Big 12 Championship — and Michigan almost certainly won’t be undefeated after it plays at Ohio State Nov. 26.

If by some chance the Wolverines manage to beat C.J. Stroud and the Buckeyes in Columbus — I’ll give you a minute here to collect yourself — then Ohio State would be tagged with a home loss. Regardless, the winner of that game will laugh itself through the Big Ten title game and earn a CFP berth.

Tennessee senior quarterback Hendon Hooker

Potholes still exist, even if Tennessee takes care of business and ends the regular season with a three-game sweep of Mizzou, South Carolina and Vanderbilt. If USC, Oregon or UCLA emerges with only one loss and a Pac-12 title, that team could leapfrog the Vols — though in Oregon’s case you’d be hard-pressed to make that argument, given the beatdown Georgia delivered to the Ducks in September. And that loss lingers over the entire league, regardless of who wins.

One-loss Ole Miss is still hanging around and still gets to play Alabama, but it’s tough to see the Rebels’ resume being better than a one-loss Tennessee resume.

Saturday wasn’t as bad for these Vols are you probably think.

It wasn’t a good day. It was a loss that all-but prevents Tennessee from playing in the SEC Championship Game. It was a loss that should have, at the very least, been a closer loss, and it might have moved Stetson Bennett IV ahead of Hendon Hooker in the Heisman Trophy race. But it wasn’t a terrible day, either.

Tennessee has work to do. It needs to win the next three games without too much drama, and a bit of outside help sure wouldn’t hurt. But if the Vols just beat three teams they should beat, it sure looks like they’ll be in the College Football Playoff. That would be one of the strongest resumes the CFP has ever excluded.

What happens if Tennessee does get there, though?

Beyond the here and now, Saturday showed how much more Tennessee needs to continue recruiting and developing players in order to give itself more margin for error in games like Georgia-in-Athens. And until then, it served as a painful reminder that the margin for error in games like that one is still small.

Tennessee football coach Josh Heupel

Georgia has a defense much like Alabama’s in its design, and as someone in Tuscaloosa suggested to this writer earlier this week, the Dawgs had 60 minutes’ worth of film showing them exactly what not to do against these Vols. That and their talent and physicality made life hard for Tennessee. It placed the entire game on Hooker, and he wasn’t bad but wasn’t his customary Superman, either. He’s now played nearly two seasons at Tennessee and become one of more prolific players in program history, but two games against Georgia have been the only two games he looked less than great. That’s not a coincidence. The Dawgs and their dudes didn’t make the same back-end busts as Alabama’s dudes against the Vols, and Georgia became the first team this season to outplay Tennessee on the line of scrimmage, too.

Maybe, just maybe, the Vols will earn the right to play Georgia on a neutral field in a couple of months. I wouldn’t pick Tennessee to win that game, either, but I do think it would be closer for a couple of important reasons. I don’t think they’d commit seven false start penalties, and I think they’d communicate better throughout the offense, and I think they’d make some tweaks to the route tree downfield.

It’s time to set aside talk of Georgia, though. Mizzou is now the only thing on the menu. Then it’ll be South Carolina. Then it’ll be Vandy. Three one-game seasons for the possibility of something truly special.

The Heupel Project at Tennessee remains miles ahead of schedule, and this humbling loss doesn't change that. If lessons are learned from it, we could even be sitting here in a couple of months saying it was something this team needed. Don't dismiss that possibility. Well, dismiss it if you want. I'm not.