1. With the world expecting the worst, the Spartans played like a team determined to define themselves differently

CHAMPAIGN, Ill. – That’s a performance by Michigan State that Mel Tucker and his players might be talking about for years. That’s a performance that says something about a team and a program. That’s a heckuva response.

With remnants of last week’s awfulness still seen everywhere — in eight MSU player suspensions, on Twitter, in outside expectations — the Spartans played like a team determined to define themselves differently. I don’t think Saturday’s 23-15 win over now 7-2 Illinois was MSU’s best win of the Tucker era. But it might have been the pluckiest. Maybe it’s the best, too, considering everything.

The Spartans — with a depleted defense and several in-game injuries that made it worse, and with the world wondering if they’d roll over — outplayed an Illini team that has been one of the better stories in college football on a day the weather required a focused and physical effort to have a chance.

MSU’s defense gave up 441 yards, but held the Illini to two touchdowns, a modest 153 yards rushing, 6-for-17 on third down and 1-of-6 on fourth down, while sacking Illinois QB Tommy Devito three times and forcing one turnover.

An MSU offense that hadn’t done enough to win very often this season, was gritty and smart and just prolific enough. Complementary football, you might say, in a game played in a wind tunnel.

The Spartans might reach a bowl game because of this win. More importantly, they told the world a little something about themselves.

“That is real, you know,” MSU QB Payton Thorne said of the Spartans' unwillingness to give in. “I’ve been on teams before in my life where you do just toss it in and say, ‘Man, this stinks’ and ‘We’re done.’ But we really don't have that. We don't have guys that do that. It’s a special thing … .”

MORE: Couch: Xavier Henderson is to MSU this season, in terms of winning and losing, as Kenneth Walker was to the Spartans a year ago

MORE: Couch's grades for Michigan State's football team after its 23-15 win at Illinois

2. A strong day for Payton Thorne and Jay Johnson … after the first play

Payton Thorne learned quickly Saturday the type of throws he could attempt and also the throws he should not try. With sustained winds of 26 mph at kickoff, MSU’s quarterback, with no help from offensive coordinator Jay Johnson, threw a 10-yard out pattern into the wind on the first play of the game. The ball fluttered and was picked off.

But from that point forward, Thorne and Johnson put together a smart, well-conceived and well-executed game for the most part. Johnson largely kept Thorne out of unfavorable situations and Thorne delivered the game of his career, perhaps, in conditions that shouldn’t have allowed for it, connecting on screens and underneath routes and one perfect 16-yard touchdown pass to Jayden Reed while being drilled to put MSU ahead 23-7. MSU’s receivers and running backs caught most of what they had a chance to catch (other than an early Reed drop in the end zone).

For Thorne, who's had a rough season, and Johnson, who's earned his criticism, this was a strong showing in difficult and limiting conditions. Thorne’s 19-for-29, 182-yard, two-touchdown passing day was, by far, his best performance of the season, given what the offenses were up against. The same could be said for Johnson (other than his last play call, too — a decision to throw it on third down on MSU's final possession as the Spartans tried to salt away the game. Oy.). The Spartans needed these two to take care of them, to get the ball to their weapons in space and, for Thorne, to make a couple great throws. He did on both touchdowns. He made good decisions, right down to his spin out of trouble and slide in bounds with less than 4 minutes left and MSU hanging on to an eight-point lead.

This was the Thorne I thought we might see all season — a savvy, unflinching and accurate QB in sync with his coordinator.

3. MSU’s offensive line did what I thought they couldn’t do

On the walk from my car to the stadium Saturday, I thought the Spartans had no shot. The wind gusts were pushing the people along. It was clear this was not a game that could be won without winning in the trenches. That seemed unlikely for MSU’s much-maligned offensive line. Well, what do I know?

This offensive line, against a defense that statistically is as good as any in the country, fired off the ball well enough to create lanes and creases for Jalen Berger, Jarek Broussard and Elijah Collins, who combined for 104 yards rushing, 81 of them on 15 carries from Berger. They held up decently in pass protection, enough so Thorne wasn’t regularly under duress.

Before the season, MSU safety Xavier Henderson said that this team will go only as far as its offensive line can take it. He wasn’t wrong. MSU entered this game 3-5, in large part, because of its offensive line. The Spartans also beat the heavily favored Illini, largely, because of their offensive line.

Contact Graham Couch at gcouch@lsj.com. Follow him on Twitter @Graham_Couch.