Millie Bobby Brown is one of the most sought-after actors of this generation. From her debut in Once Upon a Time in America to her lead role in Enola Holmes, the British actor has given memorable performances every time. However, none of them compare to her breakout role as the telekinetic teen, Eleven, in Netflix’s flagship show, Stranger Things.

So much so that the numerical name has become synonymous with the young actress. Apart from the barrage of Eleven jokes on the internet, the number seems to follow the actress wherever she goes. In fact, Millie Bobby Brown could not even get rid of her on-screen denomination at a basketball game.

ALSO READ: “Number Eleven” Seems to Follow Millie Bobby Brown Even on Waiting Lists.

Who shares the moniker ‘Eleven’ with Millie Bobby Brown?

Last night, November 5, marked an important event in Millie Bobby Brown’s life; her first-ever basketball game. The Stranger Things actress sat courtside in the front row, right in the middle of all the action, watching the nail-biting match between the New Orleans Pelicans and the Atlanta Hawks. Brown even had an impromptu interview with an NBA correspondent and a fan.

It was the interviewer who introduced the audience to the other ‘Eleven’ present in the arena. Turns out, in that court, it was Brown who was the second-ranking Eleven.

“Not the only Eleven in the house tonight, Trae Young, but we have Eleven from Stranger Things,” reported the enthusiastic host.

Trae Young is the point guard for the NBA team Atlantic Hawks who dons the jersey with the number 11. The Godzilla vs Kong star looked delighted to be at the game in her hometown, Atlanta. She even got to witness some awe-inspiring “windmill dunks” right before her eyes.

“This is amazing. It is my first basketball game ever, so I’m really excited to be here, especially in Atlanta,” exclaimed Brown.

ALSO READ: Matchgirls’ Strike: The True Story Behind Millie Bobby Brown Starrer ‘Enola Holmes 2’, Who Was Sarah Chapman?

When asked about Enola Holmes 2, which premiered on November 4, the young actress could barely contain her excitement.

“The response has been amazing so far. It’s a really empowering message about women and I’m very grateful that the response has been amazing,” shared Brown.

While this Eleven was riding the high of her newest film, things were only better for the other one. Trae Young scored 34 points and 10 assists in the overtime game as his team, the Atlanta Hawks, beat the New Orleans pelican 124-121.

Did you catch the game last night? Share your thoughts in the comments below. Meanwhile, you can also watch Enola Holmes 2, now streaming on Netflix.