Admit it, Astros fans. You were worried.

Going into that Game 4 Wednesday night in Philadelphia, the Broad Street Bullies had the hometown team on the ropes. The Astros’ vaunted offense had gone quiet the night before. The possibility of the series never returning to Houston loomed large.

Until Cristian Javier took the mound. By now, there’s no need to recap Javier’s heroics. He keynoted the Astros’ combined no-hitter that night, dominating a formidable lineup with a fastball that seemed to sashay away from the Phillies’ bats.

It was an extraordinary performance that single-handedly shifted the momentum of the series in Houston’s favor, and made all the more poignant by the unlikely trail Javier blazed to the United States.

For a city with an estimated 1.7 million foreign-born residents, players such as Dominicans Javier and Framber Valdez, Venezuelan Luis Garcia, and Mexican José Urquidy personify the American Dream. They embody what we want Houston to be — an inclusive, welcoming, worldly city, where dreams aren’t limited by language, birthplace or zip code.

In a league where many international signees ink high six- and seven-figure bonuses as soon as they turn 16, this quartet of starting pitchers signed for relative pennies. Javier signed for $10,000 one week before his 18th birthday, Garcia signed for $20,000 at the age of 20, Valdez signed for $10,000 at 21 and Urquidy made $100,000 after he was acquired from his Mexican League team two months before he turned 20.

Javier was a skinny kid from Santo Domingo who used to mimic older men he saw playing catch by chucking rocks at a mango tree. He left behind his family in a poverty-stricken nation to toil away in minor league stadiums, chasing long odds to one day toe the pitcher’s mound at Minute Maid Park. Since reaching the majors, he has so impressed coaches and teammates with his poised, cold-blooded demeanor that he earned the nickname “Reptil.” He’s even coined a new term — “Invisiball” — for his deceptive fastball, the same one that flummoxed the Phillies in Game 4.

Valdez didn’t even pick up a ball until he was 16, admitting to reporters that he didn’t think he was ready to chase his big-league dream before that. At 5-11 and 170 pounds, Valdez didn’t look like a prototypical starting pitcher, but he impressed Astros scouts in a tryout in the small town of Guayacanes, 58 miles from his hometown of Palenque on the Dominican coast. He quickly rose through the minor leagues as a relief pitcher before transitioning to the starting rotation full-time in 2020. In an era where starting pitchers rarely pitch deep into games, Valdez is the Astros’ workhorse, throwing 200 innings — fifth-highest in the majors — this season.

Garcia might never have reached the majors if not for the COVID-19 pandemic. When it looked like the entire season was in jeopardy, he stayed sharp by throwing bullpen sessions in a parking garage near the Astros’ West Palm Beach spring training facility. When a shortened season finally began, the Astros plucked Garcia — who had never pitched beyond the low-level minor leagues — from their alternate training site in Corpus Christi for a handful of major league starts. He’s been a mainstay ever since.

Urquidy, who grew up in the resort town of Mazatlán in the state of Sinaloa, was pitching in the Mexican League when the Astros acquired him in 2015. From there, he took a circuitous route to the majors. He blew out his elbow during his first year in the minor leagues, missing an entire season after having surgery. When he returned, he showcased a stronger fastball but it took him two years to prove himself before he was promoted to the major league team in 2019. He honors his hometown by playing the song “El Corrido de Mazatlán” a popular ballad by Banda del Recodo while warming up before his starts. Last year, Urquidy became one of only two Mexican-born starting pitchers to win a World Series game.

These four pitchers form the spine of a dominant pitching rotation for what could be a dynastic run for the Astros. Along with teammates and fellow young Latino stars such as Cuban-born Yordan Alvarez and Dominican-American Jeremy Peña, all are squarely in their athletic prime — Valdez, at 28, is the oldest of the bunch. None of them carry the stain of the cheating-scarred 2017 championship team. And each bring a little bit of much-needed flair and swagger to a sport long thought of by casual fans as staid and unexciting.

It was Alvarez who launched the World Series-deciding, 450-foot, three-run “moon-shot” home run in the sixth inning of Saturday night’s Game 6, 4-1 win that got Minute Maid Park rocking, watch parties screaming and celebratory fireworks popping off in neighborhoods across Houston. The rookie sensation Peña won World Series MVP thanks to acrobatic defense and timely, powerful hitting.

Nothing is guaranteed in baseball, particularly with pitchers, who put unique strain on their elbows and shoulders with every high-velocity fastball and wicked curveball they uncork. But as long as these unlikely success stories don Astros colors, they will continue to give our city something to be proud of. The team played with exuberance and cohesiveness all season, and with great love for Manager Dusty Baker, who finally earned his first world championship as a manager after 25 years. The team rushed to surround him and chant his name after Kyle Tucker chased down the final out.

“Houston, we did it again,” owner Jim Crane said from the championship ceremony stage. Oh, how we did, thanks to this admirable ensemble cast of young stars and veterans. We can’t wait for the parade.