A general theme for the Indiana defense in 2022 has been an inability to tackle, and an inability to make a play when it is needed to get off the field. In today’s 45-14 loss to Penn State those same issues cropped up once again.

On the first touchdown drive of the game for Penn State the Nittany Lions twice had a third down and eight situation where quarterback Sean Clifford threw a pass that was a 50-50 ball, and both times the Penn State receiver made the play against an IU defender. After the game head coach Tom Allen said players were in position to make plays on the ball but just failed to do so.

“There's a couple of those catches where you're right there,” he said. “We have to get the ball out, you know.”

Cornerback Tiawan Mullen had a chance on one of those third and long plays to make a play and just was not able to. The IU senior said afterwards that it is a case of the players not taking what they do on the practice to the game field.

“It's kind of frustrating,” Mullen said. “The things you go over in practice you try to translate into the game. We're not doing our part as players. The season is not over so we can still work on it.”

When it comes to the tackling there were several plays where a Penn State ball carrier broke three or four tackles and turned what should’ve been a short gain into a big play.

“The guys are fitting where they're supposed to be, and got to finish tackles,” Allen said. “That's frustrating to me. Obviously, you know, this late in the season, we've been working on tackling like crazy, and the guys are getting put in spots to make plays. They have to make them.”

Penn State running back Kaytron Allen led the Nittany Lions in rushing with 86 yards on 18 carries, and many of those yards came after a missed tackle by the Hoosiers. Mullen credited the Penn State back for running hard, but he also acknowledged the fact that he and his teammates did a poor job of getting guys to the ground when they had a chance to do so.

“He's a physical running back, he was running hard,” Mullen said about Kaytron Allen. “ I don't think he was very difficult to tackle, it was just we weren't wrapping him up, and he was doing his part to stay on his feet.”

Missed tackles by Indiana defenders were once again an issue in the loss to Penn State.

Outside linebacker Lance Bryant said it is up to the players to fix the mistakes that are keeping them from getting stops in games.

“It's very frustrating,” Bryant said about the lack of big plays from the defense. “We’ve just got to come back and work and get those things figured out and get back to the little things, the details.”

Allen said making big plays early in a game can be so critical because so many times those plays have such a big impact on how the rest of the game goes.

“To me it's very, very frustrating to have guys in those spots and not be able to come up with a play that can change the game because it really does,” Allen said. “In those early parts of the game, it's a critical part where you've got to make those key third down stops and you've got to be able to get those, whether it's take-away or whatever it happens to be. Just really, really frustrating.”