Look back at our updates from the Arizona State Sun Devils vs. UCLA Bruins Week 10 Pac-12 college football game at Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe on Saturday night.

UCLA seals win vs. ASU with late interception

Trenton Bourguet threw his third interception of the season in the end zone with 15 seconds left as UCLA was able to hold off ASU and get a 50-36 win at Sun Devil Stadium on Saturday night.

The Sun Devils fought back in the second half, but were not able to get enough defensive stops to complete the comeback after at one point being behind 42-18.

ASU had rallied to make it 42-36 with 6:24 left in the game.

UCLA put up 571 yards of total offense in the game, with 402 of it coming on the ground.

The Bruins rushed 42 times and averaged 9.6 yards per carry.

UCLA QB Dorian Thompson-Robinson only threw the ball 20 times, completing 13 of his passes for 169 yards and two touchdowns. He also rushed the ball 10 times for 120 yards and two touchdowns as the Bruins punished ASU on the ground throughout the game.

ASU had 468 total yards, 349 of which were passing yards and 119 of which were rushing.

Trenton Bourguet went 38-for-49 passing for two touchdowns and the late interception for ASU in his second career start.

UCLA improved to 8-1 with the win. The Bruins will host Arizona next week.

ASU fell to 3-6 with the loss. The Sun Devils will play at Washington State next week.

Final score: UCLA 50, ASU 36

UCLA football answers against Arizona State

The Sun Devils may have run out of time against the Bruins.

UCLA ended its scoring skid with a critical touchdown drive to give it a 50-36 lead with 2:30 left in the fourth quarter (the Bruins converted a 2-point play).

Colson Yankoff scored the touchdown on a 1-yard run to finish off a 7-play, 74 yard drive.

The Bruins benefitted from a costly unsportsmanlike penalty on ASU's Khoury Bethley on the drive.

Score: UCLA 50, ASU 36 (2:30 left in fourth quarter)

Arizona State pulls within 6 points of UCLA football

The ASU Sun Devils have pulled within six points of UCLA after a 1-yard touchdown run by Xazavian Valladay. ASU then elected to go for a 2-point conversion and Trenton Bourguet connected with Andre Johnson to pull ASU within 42-36 with 6:24 left.

ASU's drive took eight plays and went for 69 yards. It only took 2:34.

ASU was behind with 6:03 left in the third quarter, 42-18.

Now, it will be up to ASU's defense to try to get another stop.

Score: UCLA 42, Arizona State 36 (6:24 left in fourth quarter)

ASU defense makes stand against UCLA

The Sun Devils held the Bruins to a 3-and-out after UCLA had a 2nd and 3 on their ensuing possession.

The Bruins ran the ball all three times on their possession.

ASU will start its drive at its own 31-yard line.

If it could somehow get a touchdown here, with 8:58 left in the game, things would get really interesting in Tempe.

Sun Devils pull within two touchdowns of Bruins with field goal

ASU has pulled within 42-28 after Carter Brown kicked a 36-yard field goal to end a 7-play, 36 yard drive for ASU.

There is 11:09 left in the game.

There is no quit in these Sun Devils, which has to please fans.

Trenton Bourguet is 29-for-38 on the night for 239 yards and two touchdowns in just his second start at quarterback.

Score: UCLA 42, ASU 28 (11:09 left in fourth quarter)

ASU gets ball back after UCLA fumble

UCLA QB Dorian Thompson-Robinson fumbled the ball on a botched handoff with a running back and the Sun Devils have come up with a rare stop on UCLA at a very opportune time early in the fourth quarter.

It is the 12th forced fumble for ASU this season, and remarkably, the first one that the Sun Devils have recovered.

Will they be able to take advantage of the Bruins miscue?

Things get chippy after ASU scores against UCLA

ASU pulled within 42-25 on a 1-yard touchdown run by Xazavian Valladay, and things got chippy between both teams in the end zone afterward with a lot of pushing and shoving and an unsportsmanlike penalty called on UCLA.

ASU's drive took 5:33 off the clock.

The Sun Devils went 75 yards over 10 plays.

Once again, ASU will need to try to get a stop on UCLA to give itself a chance to get closer in the game.

UCLA has scored touchdowns on four straight possessions, however, and six of its last seven possessions.

Score: UCLA 42, ASU 25 (:30 left in second quarter)

UCLA scores on first play of next possession vs. Arizona State

Well, the ASU football team couldn't come up with a stop again against UCLA, as Kazmeir Allen ran 75 yards virtually untouched on the first play of the Bruins' next possession to give UCLA a 42-18 lead.

It was just too easy as Allen sprinted up the middle of the field and then darted outside for the touchdown.

UCLA's offense is firing on all cylinders. ASU can't stop the Bruins, who have 42 points with 21 minutes still left in the game.

Score: UCLA 42, ASU 18 (6:03 left in third quarter)

ASU's Elijhah Badger finds end zone vs. UCLA

The Sun Devils finally got something going on offense.

ASU completed an 8-play, 75 yard drive with a 7-yard touchdown pass from Trenton Bourguet to Elijhah Badger. ASU then completed a 2-point conversion to pull within, 35-18.

The Sun Devils were able to complete a 4th and 4 at the UCLA 20 with a Bourguet pass to Giovanni Sanders for 13 yards to extend the drive.

It's now up to the Arizona State defense to get a stop on UCLA, something it hasn't had much success in doing so far this game.

Score: UCLA 35, Arizona State 18 (6:15 left in third quarter)

UCLA extends lead vs. ASU with Dorian Thompson-Robinson's run

Dorian Thompson-Robinson led the Bruins on a 10-play, 65 yard touchdown drive, rushing the ball in from 4 yards out to give UCLA a 35-10 lead in the game with 10:03 left in the third quarter.

How good are things going for the UCLA QB? After ASU forced a fumble by Kazmeir Allen on the drive, Thompson-Robinson scooped it up and ran for a first down on a 3rd and 2 to keep the drive alive.

Thompson has now rushed for 89 yards on just eight carries, with two going for touchdowns.

He has added two touchdowns passing.

Score: UCLA 35, ASU 10 (10:03 left in third quarter)

Sun Devils start second half with three-and-out on offense

That wasn't what ASU needed.

The Sun Devils went three-and-out on their first possession of the second half with a sack by UCLA once again hurting ASU's chances to get anything going on offense.

UCLA appears poised to blow open this game.

Arizona State vs. UCLA: First half thoughts, stats

It was a tale of two quarters for the Arizona State Sun Devils against the UCLA Bruins in the first half of their Pac-12 game at Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe on Saturday night.

ASU only trailed the Bruins at the end of the first quarter, 14-10. But two second quarter touchdowns from UCLA, and no points for ASU, has Arizona State trailing at the half, 28-10.

After scoring a touchdown to pull ahead 10-7 with 2:41 left in the first quarter, the Sun Devils have really struggled on offense, having to punt after short drives on three straight possessions in the second quarter, and then having time run out on them on their last possession before the half.

After the first quarter UCLA had 152 total yards and ASU has 119.

UCLA held a 72-69 passing yard advantage, and an 80-50 advantage rushing after the first quarter.

At the half, UCLA has 333 total yards and ASU has just 168.

UCLA has a 154-124 advantage in passing yards and a 179-44 advantage in rushing yards at the half.

That's not going to get the job done for the Sun Devils.

ASU's Trenton Bourguet is 16-for-23 passing for 124 yards, but he has struggled after the first quarter as UCLA's pressure has impacted his play.

UCLA's Dorian Thompson-Robinson is 12-for-17 for 154 yards and two touchdowns, with one interception, at the half.

ASU gets to start the second half with the ball. Can the Sun Devils get back into this game?

Score: UCLA 28, Arizona State 10 (halftime)

UCLA adds to lead against Arizona State before half

That hurts.

UCLA just went on a 16-play, 90-yard drive that took 5:48 off the clock and gave the Bruins a 28-10 lead with 33 seconds left in the first half at Sun Devil Stadium in Tempe.

ASU couldn't contain Dorian Thompson-Robinson again on the drive as the QB found Michael Ezeike for a 9-yard touchdown to cap the drive.

Thompson-Robinson ran for 18 yards on a 3rd and 14 on the previous play.

Arizona State did get some pressure on UCLA's QB on the drive and sacked him twice, but it wasn't able to consistently bring the pressure.

The crowd at Sun Devil Stadium in silent.

ASU does get the ball to start the second half, but it has a tough battle to get back in this game.

Score: UCLA 28, ASU 10 (:33 left in first half)

ASU offense continues cold streak vs. UCLA

The second quarter has not been kind to the ASU offense.

The Sun Devils needed to get something going on its next possession, and failed to do so, having to punt the ball back to UCLA and Dorian Thompson-Robinson.

After a promising start on offense, Arizona State has stagnated and been unable to get anything going in the quarter against the Bruins.

ASU's latest drive went for just 14 yards over six plays.

The Sun Devils have gained just 14 yards, -1 yards and 17 yards on their last three possessions.

UCLA now has a chance to take control of the game unless ASU's defense can make something happen, something it has struggled to do against UCLA.

UCLA finds momentum on offense again vs. ASU

ASU's defense wasn't able to stop UCLA on its next possession as Dorian Thompson-Robinson leaped over a defender on a dynamic 33-yard run to set up first & goal at the ASU 10.

Keegan Jones ran it in for the touchdown on the next play.

UCLA's drive went for 91 yards in just five plays.

Thompson-Robinson is 8-for-11 passing for 116 yards with a touchdown and an interception.

He also has three carried for 62 yards and a touchdown.

Needless to say, Arizona State, and Trenton Bourguet, could really use a scoring drive of some sort on its next possession.

Score: UCLA 21, Arizona State 10 (9:43 left in second quarter)

Sack hurts Arizona State on next possession vs. UCLA

Trenton Bourguet was sacked for a 10-yard loss on Arizona State's first play of its next possession by Grayson Murphy and then the QB missed Bryan Thompson on the next play, hurting ASU's chances to get something going.

Arizona State had to punt after a 3rd and 20 pass from Bourguet to Xazavian Valladay only went for nine yards.

The Sun Devils did pin UCLA at its own 9-yard line after a 49-yard punt by Eddie Czaplicki.

There is 11:26 left in the first half.

The offenses have stalled early in the second quarter after dominating the first quarter as it appears the defenses have settled down after shaky starts.

We'll see if that continues.

Arizona State forces UCLA to punt for first time

The Sun Devils needed a big defensive stop on UCLA's next possession.

They got it.

The Bruins had a three-and-out on their next possession and had to punt for the first time in the game. Dorian Thompson-Robinson completed 2-of-3 passes on the drive, but those two completions were both for zero yards.

ASU will start its next possession at its own 43-yard line.

ASU football forced to punt against UCLA

We've now had our first punt of the game as UCLA forced ASU to punt less than a minute into the second quarter.

ASU did get a first-down on the drive on a holding penalty on UCLA, but was unable to get anything else going and gained just 17 yards on four plays on the possession.

UCLA will open its next drive at the Bruins 17-yard line and the Arizona State defense could really use a stop to help keep them in the game.

Quick first-quarter stats in UCLA vs. ASU game

UCLA has 152 total yards, ASU has 119.

UCLA holds a 72-69 passing yard advantage, and an 80-50 advantage rushing.

UCLA's 80 rushing yards have come on just seven carries. It's 72 passing yards have been on just four completions.

UCLA is 2-for-2 on third down, while ASU is 0-for-2, but 1-1 on fourth down.

UCLA has the one turnover, which led to a field goal for Arizona State.

UCLA explodes for another touchdown against ASU

The UCLA offense knows how to strike fast. The Bruins did it again with a 5-play, 77-yard drive that took 2:01 to give them a 14-10 lead on ASU.

Dorian Thompson-Robinson found Keegan Jones for a 3-yard touchdown to put UCLA back in front.

He also ran for 15 yards on one play on the drive. Jones also had a 12-yard run on the possession.

The big play of the drive, however, was a 42-yard pass play from Thompson-Robinson to Kazmeir Allen.

ASU's offense is going to have to keep the pressure on UCLA, because the Sun Devils' defense isn't, save for the interception on the first play of the game.

UCLA has been able to do all this without its best running back, Zach Charbonnet, who hasn't made an appearance in the game.

Score: UCLA 14, Arizona State 10 (:32 left in first quarter)

ASU's aggressiveness pays off against UCLA early

ASU interim coach Shaun Aguano elected to go for it on a 4th and goal from the UCLA 3 on Arizona State's ensuing possession and the Sun Devils' aggressiveness paid off when Trenton Bourguet connected with tight end Messiah Swinson on a 3-yard touchdown pass.

The play capped a 12-play, 75-yard drive for the Sun Devils. The drive took 6:07.

Xazavian Valladay had appeared to run for a 3-yard touchdown earlier in the drive, but a holding penalty negated the touchdown. ASU was still able to get in the end zone, however, after Bourguet found tight end Jalin Conyers on a 10-yard reception the play before Swinson's catch.

Bourguet is off to a great start for ASU, going 7-for-10 for 69 yards and a touchdown for the Sun Devils.

Score: ASU 10, UCLA 7 (2:41 left in first quarter)

We interrupt our ASU-UCLA game updates to inform you that LSU has upset Alabama in overtime in Baton Rouge, 32-31.

Former ASU quarterback Jayden Daniels went 22-for-32 for 182 yards and two touchdowns passing to lead LSU to the win.

He ran for a 25-yard score in overtime and connected with Mason Taylor on the 2-point conversion to give LSU the win.

UCLA responds quickly vs. Arizona State, takes first lead

It didn't take Dorian Thompson-Robinson and UCLA long to shake off its opening possession interception.

The quarterback just led the Bruins on a 7-play, 75-yard touchdown drive, running for a 14-yard touchdown to put UCLA ahead, 7-3.

Thompson also completed a key 22-yard pass to Logan Loya on 3rd and 12 at the UCLA 23 to keep the Bruins' drive alive. His touchdown run came on a 3rd and 3.

That drive was too easy for the Bruins. It only took them 2:25 to go the 75 yards. Arizona State's defense is going to have to find a way to contain the dynamic dual-threat UCLA QB if it wants a chance to spring the upset of the No. 10 Bruins in Tempe tonight.

Score: UCLA 7, Arizona State 3 (8:54 left in first quarter)

Sun Devils have to settle for field goal vs. Bruins after interception

ASU couldn't get in the end zone after intercepting UCLA on the first play of the game, but it did take the lead on the Bruins with a 25-yard field goal by Carter Brown.

Arizona State's drive went for eight plays and 33 yards, but stalled after having a first and 10 at the UCLA 14 when a 7-yard run by Xazavian Valladay was followed by two incomplete passes from quarterback Trenton Bourguet.

Still, the Sun Devils have a 3-0 lead after the big defensive play to open the game.

Score: Arizona State 3, UCLA 0 (11:19 left in first quarter)

ASU intercepts UCLA on first play from scrimmage

The Sun Devils elected to defer to the second half after winning the toss against UCLA.

They got the ball on the first play of the game anyway.

ASU defensive back Chris Edmonds intercepted UCLA QB Dorian Thompson-Robinson on the first play from scrimmage, giving ASU the ball at the UCLA 40.

ASU already leads the turnover battle, 1-0 and that is a statistical category that could prove to be very important in this game.

The game can be seen at 7:30 p.m. MST time on FS1.

Noah Eagle (play-by-play) and Mark Helfrich (analyst) will be the announcing crew for the game.

More:Arizona State football will upset UCLA, make college bowl game, Pac-12 insider says

UCLA is an 11-point favorite in the game, according to Tipico Sportsbook.

ASU is +310 on the moneyline. UCLA is -400.

The over/under for the game is set at 66 points.

Most sites are predicting the Bruins to beat the Sun Devils in Saturday's game, and they are taking UCLA to cover the point spread.

The Arizona Republic's Michelle Gardner previewed and predicted the outcome of the game in her Arizona State vs. UCLA scouting report.

More:Will ASU or Arizona end up with a better record in 2022-23 college football season?

ASU, UCLA records this college football season

The Sun Devils are 3-5 on the season, coming off a 42-34 win at Colorado.

ASU's other wins came against NAU and Washington. It's losses were against Oklahoma State, Eastern Michigan, Utah, USC and Stanford.

The Bruins are 7-1. They are coming off a 38-13 win against Stanford.

The Bruins' only loss came at Oregon on Oct. 22 in a 45-30 setback.

They have also beaten Bowling Green, Alabama State, South Alabama, Colorado, Washington and Utah.

Pregame reading for ASU vs. UCLA Pac-12 football game

Reach Jeremy Cluff at jeremy.cluff@arizonarepublic.com. Follow him on Twitter @Jeremy_Cluff.

Support local journalism: Subscribe to azcentral.com today.