Cadillac Williams was this close to capturing his first win as a head coach.

Auburn led with under a minute remaining, but ended up falling in overtime to Mississippi State, 39-33. He spoke postgame about how he felt about his team’s effort.

He seemed most impressed by the fact that nobody quit.

Cadillac Williams: “Nobody quit. I haven’t experienced Auburn football in that way this year.” — Nathan King (@NathanKing247) November 6, 2022

He made a lot of Auburn fans proud Saturday night too, taking the blame for the loss in the end. He went on for some time about that.

Auburn interim HC Cadillac Williams: “We’ve got to get better on the discipline part. We did some things that will get you beat… That’s starting with myself. It ain’t on all these kids, man. They fought their tails off. I could’ve done some things better. I really could have.” — Justin Ferguson (@JFergusonAU) November 6, 2022

Despite the loss, Williams sees a lot of lessons the Tigers can take from battling against a strong Bulldogs squad.

Auburn interim HC Cadillac Williams: “We’re not gonna take this as a loss. We didn’t complete the mission… but there are so many, so many, so many life lessons these kids are gonna learn.” — Justin Ferguson (@JFergusonAU) November 6, 2022

Here’s more from Cadillac Williams’ postgame interview.

this is the most emotional press conference I’ve ever been a part of, bar none Cadillac Williams is just pouring his soul out here — Justin Ferguson (@JFergusonAU) November 6, 2022

Auburn interim HC Cadillac Williams on what happened at halftime: “I told them, ‘Forget the scoreboard. We’re gonna keep fighting. Keep punching.’ Those kids did not blink. They did not blink. They said, ‘Coach, we’ve got you.'” — Justin Ferguson (@JFergusonAU) November 6, 2022

Auburn interim HC Cadillac Williams: “This night was special for me. All day, too. Just felt right. Honestly, when I woke up, I told those guys, ‘We’re gonna win this game. We’re gonna win this game.’ The energy was just different. You could see it in their eyes.” — Justin Ferguson (@JFergusonAU) November 6, 2022