Piscataway, N.J. – There's just something about the second half for Michigan. In the last four games, the Wolverines have found a way to find another gear in the second half and have been dominant defensively.

That included the Wolverines’ 52-17 win Saturday night at Rutgers when, after trailing at halftime, pitched a second-half shutout. They rode the wave of three interceptions, including two by Michael Barrett, and enjoyed success in the red zone scoring touchdowns six times and added one field goal.

The Wolverines, ranked No. 4 in the Associated Press poll and No. 5 in the College Football Playoff rankings, entered this game as heavy favorites, but didn’t look sharp in the first half. They were without four starters, two each on offense and defense, including left tackle Ryan Hayes and edge rusher Jaylen Harrell.

Michigan is 9-0, 6-0 Big Ten and has won eight straight against Rutgers (4-5, 1-5).

Running back Blake Corum had two touchdowns runs, and has 16 this season. He had 20 carries for 109 yards. His backfield sidekick Donovan Edwards also ran for 109 yards on 15 carries and had three catches for 52 yards and a 14-yard touchdown reception from J.J. McCarthy.

McCarthy was 13-of-27 for 151 yards and had two touchdown passes, including a 6-yarder to Cornelius Johnson. Barrett returned an interception for a score and Jake Moody added a 29-yard field goal after missing two 50-yarders in the first half.

Michigan has outscored its last four opponents, Rutgers, Michigan State, Penn State and Indiana, 100-3 in the second half with only Penn State scoring on a field goal in the third quarter. After trailing Rutgers 17-14, the Wolverines, who gained 433 yards, held the Scarlet Knights to 57 second-half yards, including 18 in the fourth quarter, and only one first down in the second half.

“Everybody walking around the locker room high fiving each other just telling everybody we’re all good,” Barrett said. “We all know what kind of team we have, what our potential is, what we can do. We go around motivating each other and that the second half is ours. Just play our offense, play our defense, and we’ll come out with the win.”

BOX SCORE: Michigan 52, Rutgers 17

The Wolverines went on a third-quarter scoring spree with 28 points to build a 42-17 lead, and Barrett was a big part of that.

Michigan shook off the first-half sluggishness, and regained the lead, 21-17, on a 14-yard pass from McCarthy to Edwards with 8:24 left. Barrett then got the first of his two interceptions and gave Michigan the ball at the Rutgers 10-yard line. Corum scored on a 2-yard run with 6:53 left.

It was Barrett again 11 seconds later scoring on a pick-six on a 31-yard interception return for the 35-17 lead. He said quarterback Gavin Wimsatt didn’t see him on the first interception. The second was a deflection.

“I dropped one last week. It was due,” Barrett said. “That’s all I was thinking about while that ball was in the air, ‘Just catch it, just catch it.’”

Freshman Will Johnson, making his first start, then recorded his first career interception to give Michigan great field position again at the Scarlet Knights 31-yard line. Corum ran 28 yards and two plays later McCarthy connected with Cornelius Johnson for a 6-yard touchdown.

“Sky’s the limit,” Corum said of Michigan’s explosive third quarter. “I don’t think we even know what we’re capable of. We know we’re capable of amazing things, and we can go as far as we want to as long as we don’t hold ourselves back.”

Michigan coach Jim Harbaugh called it a “good team effort” and referenced the 2020 game.

“We had a better start than we had the last time we played here,” Harbaugh said.

The Wolverines trailed by 17 before winning two years ago 48-42 in triple overtime.

While it was a better start Saturday night, the Scarlet Knights still had the 17-14 halftime lead, first scoring on a blocked punt, while their defense applied constant pressure on McCarthy. Moody, coming off a stellar performance last week, missed two 50-yard attempts, including one in the final seconds of the half.

Michigan had two red-zone touchdowns in the first half, but both times the Wolverines had to convert on 4th-and-1, the first by Corum and the second by McCarthy.

“They have good schemes, good players,” Corum said, explaining the challenges those two red-zone trips. “They were definitely doing everything in their power to stop the run.”

But in the second half, the tone was set by the defense. Edge rusher Mike Morris, who was credited with 1.5 sacks and leads the team with seven, said there was no message at halftime because the Wolverines have prepared for this type of adversity since spring practice.

“Coach Harbaugh organizes situations to where we’re at a disadvantage,” Morris said, “so moments like these are easy.”

He credited defensive coordinator Jesse Minter, co-defensive coordinator Steve Clinkscale and defensive line coach Mike Elston for the in-game adjustments at halftime.

“(They) all come together and put up a game plan of what we’re getting beat at, what we’re missing, and they put it so intricately together and set it up so easy for us that all we have to do is go out and do what they tell us.”

Clearly, the message received.

angelique.chengelis@detroitnews.com

Twitter.com: @chengelis