STARKVILLE, Mississippi — For the first time since the first couple weeks of the season, essentially, Auburn fans were reinvigorated with this week's news that Cadillac Williams — one of the most beloved figures in program history — would be leading the charge as interim coach for the remainder of the season after Bryan Harsin's ouster. His promise was that his team would fight their guts our these last few games — for themselves and for a downtrodden fanbase.

And the Tigers' lived up to his promise, despite dropping their fifth straight game on the year.

Playing with fight and second-half adjustments seldom seen all season, Auburn came back from down 21 early to take a 25-24 lead in the fourth quarter before Mississippi State punched back to send the game to overtime.

The Tigers missed a 38-yard field goal in OT, then Mississippi State walked it off with a 5-yard touchdown run by Jo'quavious Marks for a 39-33 win.

Here are Auburn Undercover’s immediate takeaways from a thrilling night in Starkville.

Furious Auburn rally

Last November in Jordan-Hare Stadium, Auburn was dealt the largest blown lead in the history of its home field, losing to Mississippi State after leading 28-3 in the second quarter.

And the Tigers nearly returned the favor in Starkville.

Down 24-3 early in the second quarter, Auburn scored 22 unanswered, inciting roars from the pocket of Tigers fans gathered in Davis Wade Stadium.

The key was cooling down Mississippi State quarterback Will Rogers, who completed 12 of his first 15 passes and broke Dak Prescott’s program passing-touchdown record in the first quarter.

The Tigers did so with a menacing pass rush that sacked Rogers five times in the game, including strip-sacks and fumble recoveries in the second quarter. Pressure then forced Rogers into an errant throw early in the third quarter, looking over the middle but having his pass tipped and picked off by Jaylin Simpson.

Simpson’s return to Mississippi State’s 19-yard line didn’t yield any points after Robby Ashford failed to connect to Ja’Varrius Johnson on a fourth-and-5 slant, but the Tigers scored on the previous possession with a 20-yard scramble by Ashford, after a muffed snap on a punt by the Bulldogs gave Auburn the ball at the 16-yard line.

Punting issues continued in the third quarter after another defensive stop for Auburn, which included another sack by Derick Hall. This time, Bulldogs punter Archer Trafford shanked it for just a 13-yard punt. Auburn was set up with the ball at the opposing 35-yard line.

Ashford used his legs to find the end zone once again, this time from 18 yards out to trim the lead down to one score, 24-19 with 4:18 left in the third quarter.

In the third quarter, Auburn had four drives: It started at its own 39, the opposing 16, the opposing 19 and the opposing 35.

Conversely, after going up 24-3, here were the results of Mississippi State’s next nine possessions: fumble, fumble, halftime, turnover on downs, interception, punt, punt, punt, punt.

Tank explodes for the lead

Auburn hadn't had much in the way of sustained offense all night.

Until Tank Bigsby finally broke free.

After forcing yet another Mississippi State punt, Auburn needed only four players to erase the three-touchdown hole and grab the lead in Starkville. Bigsby found the end zone from 41 yards out, and Williams, his sideline and the Auburn fans on hand went absolutely ballistic.

Bigsby had 89 yards on the day; Ashford had 108 yards to lead an Auburn team that went for 256 yards on the ground.

Dramatic final minutes

Rogers finally got some momentum cooking for the first time in nearly two quarters for Mississippi State's passing game — and it couldn't have come at a worse time for the Tigers.

Completing 6-of-7 passes on the drive, Rogers eventually hooked up with Rara Thomas for the receiver's second touchdown of the game to put the Bulldogs up 30-25 with 3:49 remaining.

The Tigers kept their offensive mojo flowing, though. Ashford found Johnson downfield for 27 yards on third-and-7 to get Auburn inside the 40-yard line, then was met with another third-and-long from 12 yards out. There was no such luck there, with Ashford getting sacked, but two defensive holding calls bailed the Tigers out and gave them a free first down.

Ashford picked up 13 yards and a first-and-goal on a designed run the next play. Jarquez Hunter, a Mississippi native who chose Auburn over the Bulldogs coming out of high school, capped the drive with an 8-yard score to give the Tigers' a 33-30 advantage — after Ashford got the 2-point conversion with his legs — with 1:05 remaining.

A facemask on Auburn on the kickoff gave Mississippi State the ball at midfield, needing a field goal to tie or a touchdown to lead. Marks' 14-yard burst got the Bulldogs into the field-goal range, then Miss State made a 43-yard field goal to tie things up, despite Williams icing him twice with timeouts.

Then the unthinkable — which is rarely applicable in college football — happened. Mississippi State's kickoff drilled an Auburn player and bounced up in the air, and the Bulldogs recovered what ultimately amounted to an accidental onside kick.

Rogers scrambled for 15 yards to instantly get the Bulldogs into field-goal range. Kicker Massimo Biscardi couldn't make his second clutch kick in less than a minute, though, and the game was sent to overtime.

Auburn did nothing with the ball first, though, and Carlson missed a 38-yarder. All Mississippi State had to do

Tigers weather ugly start

Williams had Auburn fans everywhere fired up after his pregame comments about how excited he’s been this week for the opportunity to be the head coach — albeit on an interim basis — for his alma mater.

And the Tigers were buzzing with energy, too, at the start of the game — but it was short-lived, thanks to Mississippi State’s efficient passing attack and an an inept offense. The Bulldogs were in the red zone twice in the first five minutes of the game, with their first two drives going for 11 plays, 130 yards and 10 points.

Auburn’s first two drives, meanwhile, were a pair of three-and-outs, as run-blocking was nearly nonexistent, and Ashford flushed out of the pocket on seemingly every other passing down. Auburn’s initial first down in the game came with 2:17 left in the first quarter.

The Tigers forced a punt, though, on Mississippi State’s third possession by stuffing a third-and-1 run near midfield. But the Bulldogs were granted a short field after Williams rolled the dice, going for it on fourth-and-1 from his own 26-yard line. Johnson was hit in the backfield on a sweep for a turnover on downs. Rogers found the end zone on a connection with Rara Thomas three plays later to spot Auburn a 17-0 deficit early in the second quarter.

Squandered second-quarter opportunities

Still with a highly inconsistent offense in every facet, Auburn’s first four drives yielded just 44 yards and one first down, until Rogers was strip-sacked by defensive tackle Jeffrey M’ba early in the second quarter, and edge rusher Dylan Brooks picked it up at Miss State’s 8-yard line.

The Tigers went backwards, though, on a 2-yard loss by Bigsby, then a 15-yard blindside block penalty on Jeremiah Wright, making for a second-and-goal from the 25. Anders Carlson made a 27-yard field goal.

But another shallow kickoff by Carlson, who’s struggled with getting the ball in the end zone for touchbacks for most of this season, gave way to a 92-yard kickoff return for a touchdown by Lideatrick Griffin to make it 24-3.

Even after Bigsby’s 38-yard run the following series — the longest play of the day for Auburn to that point — Ashford was sacked just outside the red zone on third down, and Carlson had to kick a 41-yarder.

But Auburn’s defensive front continued to disrupt to the tune of its second strip sack in as many possessions. Hall swiped the ball from Rogers, and Colby Wooden fell on it at Auburn’s 48-yard line.

Again, the Tigers did nothing with it, though. They were gifted two turnovers by their defense in the second quarter, and totaled minus-7 yards on those two free possessions.

Auburn Undercover will update this story. Check back for additional information.