Nahida is a catalyst-wielding 5* character in Genshin Impact that was released in the first half of version 3.2. She is an excellent Dendro support who can use her skill to allow teammates to consistently cause Dendro reactions. She can also use her burst to buff her skill DMG as well as further buff her teammates’ EM. In this guide, we will talk about the best team compositions of Nahida in Genshin Impact.

How Nahida should be played to utilize its max potential

Image via HoYoverse

Nahida fits into any Dendro team with ease. There is no one good team for each type of reaction, the Electro and Hydro units are mostly replaceable by other characters from the same element. An exception to this is the Nilou bloom team where Nilou is irreplaceable. Here TKP is used throughout to refer to Tri-Karma Purification, which is the name of the instance of DMG dealt with by Nahida’s skill.

Best Team Compositions for Nahida in Genshin Impact

1. Nilou Bloom Team

This team relies on Nilou’s special Bloom cores known as Bountiful Cores. These are formed in place of regular Blooms. They explode faster and have higher DMG and bigger AOE.

Nilou Nahida Dendro Traveller Kokomi/Barbara Enables Bountiful Cores TKP DMG Off-field Dendro Healer/Bloom trigger

Dendro Traveller applies Hydro in a circle, meanwhile, Nahida replenishes the Dendro aura on marked enemies, acting as an additional source of Dendro. Nahida’s burst provides an EM buff for the one triggering the Blooms. This should be either Kokomi/Barbara or Nahida. This character needs to be built with EM.

2. Hyperbloom Team

Hyperbloom occurs when electro attacks hit Bloom cores. Due to the nature of these teams, a lot of Spread and Aggravate are also being triggered, adding to the overall DMG.

Nahida Raiden/Yae/Fischl/Kuki Kokomi/Xinqiu/Yelan/Ayato Kazuha/Sucrose TKP DMG/replenishes Dendro Causes Hyperbloom Causes Bloom Grouping/enemy resistance shred/elemental DMG bonus (Kazuha only)/EM share (Sucrose only)

Grouping/enemy resistance shred/elemental DMG bonus (Kazuha only)/EM share (Sucrose only). Since the electro character is causing Hyperbloom, they need to be built with EM. Nahida’s burst is a reliable source of EM.

3. Quicken Team

Quicken occurs when Dendro and Electro hit an enemy. This acts as an aura. Further application of Electro and Dendro will cause Aggravate and Spread, respectively. This adds a flat DMG bonus to the attack that triggered it.

Nahida Electro/Dendro Electro Kazuha/Sucrose TKP DMG/replenishes Dendro Causes Aggravate/Spread Causes Aggravate Grouping/enemy resistance shred/elemental DMG bonus (Kazuha only)/EM share (Sucrose only)

On-field Nahida would rely on off-field Electro (Fischl/Yae/Kuki) to cause Spread. She would also allow off-field Electro characters to cause Aggravate. Off-field Nahida consistently replenishes Dendro to allow on-field Electro characters (Keqing/Cyno) to constantly cause Aggravate.

Final Thoughts

Image via HoYoverse

Nahida is a very versatile support for all Dendro teams. She has both an on-field and an off-field playstyle to choose from, and both are viable. Her best synergies are with Hydro and Electro characters, but she does not require any specific character to function, which makes her pretty much universal for Dendro teams.

For more Mobile Gaming news and updates, join our WhatsApp group, Telegram Group, or Discord server. Also, follow us on Google News, Instagram, and Twitter for quick updates.