Pokémon Go is hosting its Dratini Community Day Classic on Nov. 5 from 2-5 p.m. in your local time.

This throwback event will have Dratini spawning in abundance, with a high chance for it to be Shiny. Dragonite, its third-stage evolution, is a strong Pokémon to have around, so if you missed out on the chance to grab some easily before (all the way back in 2018!) then you should definitely grab a few now.

How do I find a Shiny Dratini?

According to research conducted by Pokémon community site The Silph Road, Shiny rates on Community Days are about 1 in 24, which means that if you keep playing throughout the three-hour window, you should find quite a few Shiny Pokémon.

If you’re short on time or Poké Balls, you can pop an Incense, then quickly tap each Dratini to check for Shiny ones, running from any that aren’t Shiny. Notably, any Dratini you’ve already tapped will face where your player is standing, so that should help identify which ones you may have already checked.

What Community Day move does Dratini’s evolution learn?

When you evolve a Dragonair — Dratini’s second-stage evolution — into a Dragonite between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. in your local time, your Dragonite will learn the charged attack Draco Meteor.

The move is not debuting with this Community Day, since this is a rerun of an old event, so you can use an Elite TM to get it whenever.

How does Dragonite do in the meta?

Dragonite remains a staple in the PvE (gyms and raids) meta, doing great with Dragon Tail and Outrage (not Draco Meteor).

Dragonite is also fine in Ultra and Master League due to its high stats, but it’s easily beaten by fairy-types. Give your Dragonite Dragon Claw with Outrage or Superpower and watch it destroy competition. Hurricane can also be subbed in depending on what type of Pokémon you’re seeing a lot in PvP.

How do I make the most of Dratini Community Day?

The following bonuses will be active during Litwick Community Day:

Tripled Stardust for catching Pokémon

Incense lasts three hours

Lure Modules lasts three hours

That said, you should definitely pop a Star Piece and an Incense and try to nab as many Dratini as possible to power up the strongest Dragonite you can make.

If you can Mega Evolve Charizard X, Ampharos, Altaria, Latios, or Latias, you’ll score additional Dratini Candy per catch.